First, there's this
thing's called snippets,
I am sure most of you have used some
form of snippets in vscode, right?
We're gonna just do a quick example,
I know they're available in IntelliJ,
vscode, emacs, vim, they're all over
the place, you can definitely use these.
So if I were to come in here and just type
in the word, function foo and do this.
I could type all of that in there,
took me a little bit of time, or
I could just type in fn and
use this little snippet program.
And then go foo, hit tab I don't
want any of those, hit tab.
And then there you go, I'm now in
the body and I can start typing.
Snippets, they're pretty cool, right?
They're pretty neat, but for the most
part, I actually don't really like
snippets too much, they're great for
learning a language.
Hey, I wanna do a for loop and go, and I
don't really know how to do a for loop and
go, type in for, look for
the snippet auto complete,
use that as a method of learning.
Great but it's not,
I feel snippets are just simply
a stepping stone to something better.
Ultimately I do think there is
something better,it's not available for
everybody and I think it's coming and
I think we're all gonna use it.
I think by 2024 there will be most
developers using some form of this,
I know that's a pretty big guess,
two years, maybe it's gonna be five years.
But of course, what is it?
It is gonna be GitHub Copilot, I think
something like a GitHub Copilot is gonna
be a part of every person's job being
able to do AI assisted programming.
And if you haven't had the time
to use it or even look at it,
we're gonna take a brief
little look at it right now.
So I'm gonna actually just touch a file
in here, let's call it, make-a-game,
I'm gonna do something really simple,
and ts, there we go.
And let's go over here, just to kinda make
it easy, type script is its best language.
Gosh, I agree to these
additional telemetry.
My goodness, my goodness.
Not a fan of telemetry but hey,
some people like giving all
their information to other people, so
GitHub Copilot right here, ready to rock.
For those that don't know
anything about GitHub Copilot,
it uses the entirety of GitHub,
scans through things.
It uses another, that open AI,
Codex, whatever it's called,
to kind of generate this smart item to
be able to give you suggestions and
some of the suggestions
are pretty dang good.
Actually here, this is what I was doing,
create a matrix, let's see a translation
matrice, I wanted to do something
that was a little bit easier.
Translation matrice
homogenous four by four.
Function, createTranslationMatrix.
There you go, there we go,
we got a createTranslationMatrix,
it's obviously doing
something a little bit goofy,
it's putting the values over
here as opposed to here.
It has a rotation in the matrix but
it's able to generate these
things pretty quickly.
And you can kind of, you know,
okay now we gotta create that mat4 class.
Create mat4 class, From values.
Yeah, that's exactly how
we used it elsewhere.
And there we go.
It effectively worked,
now we just gotta create the constructor.
It's kind of interesting how it's doing
this, notice how it's kind of programming.
It definitely did exactly what it said it
was going to do, just a little bit goofy.
How do you wanna do this?
What a funny way it did it.
It's obviously not that great.
You can see that it's doing things in kind
of a really goofy not very great matrice
way, but nonetheless, it's actually
attempting to create these things on
the fly and eventually you'll
actually get something that works.
I was able to make a couple games that
worked fairly successfully like this and
so this is really where I think
the future will ultimately go.
Right now it's like a toy.
You use it, it fails all the time, but
it's only gonna keep on getting better and
better and better.
And I do think one day it will be quite
incredible because you're gonna be typing,
it's gonna be able to A, understand your
project which there's a lot of questions
about, do private companies want GitHub
to understand the project, blah, blah?
But barring all those things aside,
ultimately,
if this thing can make really great like,
hey, by the way,
this code already exists in this one spot,
you would have never known that.
You would have created duplicate code,
it's gonna be able to spot so
many things that just tools
aren't easily able to spot.
And I do think one day this
will be really incredible.
Right now it's kind of in its infancy,
It's in its technical preview.
Sometimes it's awesome,
sometimes it's ridiculous.
Sometimes you can get it to say funny
things like, tell me a joke, and
then it's gonna come in here and
say, tell me a joke.
And what are you gonna do?
Knock knock, who's there?
Java, Java who?
Java, it's me, look at that,
how great is that?
How great is that knock knock joke?
It just gave me a joke right then and
there using alert boxes but
nonetheless, I find this thing
to be pretty interesting.
It gives you a whole new perspective
on how some things could be done and
some things are really useful.
Things that have really concrete values
that you know probably exists a lot out
there they can do really quickly.
Some things,
it doesn't do very good right now.
Create a rotational, watch,
matrix, there we go.
Create rotation matrix and it's gonna
do all these nice little things,
I don't even know where
it's going right now.
Let's see where it goes, does it?
Let's undo this because
it's obviously bad.
Four by four homogenous, there we go.
Let's see if we can get it to do that.
All right, yes, yes, yes.
Do it, my goodness that is
looking potentially incorrect.
This is looking very incorrect,
interesting.
So that time I couldn't do it,
I've actually written a few programs
that have got it completely correct.
It just is a really funny thing right
now because it's so untapped right now,
but I do think that there's gonna be
a moment within the next couple years
that we are all using
some version of this.
And I do think it's significantly
better than snippets,
because snippets only allow for so much.
You can look through the suggestions.
You can look through all the suggestions,
I was just taking the first one but
nonetheless it's actually rather
incredible what it can do.
I mean, the fact that it can
even get to that point for
me is already just an amazing experience.
I don't know what it's going to be like,
but I do know a lot of people always
worry, I hear a bunch like, hey,
is Copilot gonna take our jobs?
I don't think Copilot's
gonna take people's jobs.
But I think people who know how to
use Copilot in the next couple years
are gonna be sought after engineers,
people that know how to take
advantage of these new tools.
Because you're just gonna be able to
generate a lot of things that can kinda
self heal themselves.
These AIs, these robots, as they get more
and more experience, they're just gonna
know how to do things better faster
than we will ever be able to do.
You could have a million line codebase and
say a summing function already exists,
but you couldn't find it.
You could imagine that you'd start
typing the code, it's like, hey,
already exists here,
go check this out, jump,
boom, you just import it,
then it just knows all the things.
And the skill gap is definitely,
so someone's mentioning skill gap,
I think skill gap is gonna
become very interesting.
Because the faster and
better you're able to use these tools,
I think it's gonna greatly change
what type of engineer you are.
And so I'm not someone that likes to
reject cool new technologies just because
they're, I mean,
obviously this example kind of stunk.
I did this literally last week and
it was spot on.
It was so ridiculous to the point where
even when it was comparing input,
it was like player one wins.
I was like, correct is like
Player Two Wins, is that correct?
Then it did an L statement, I'm like,
all right, it's doing an L statement,
it was like, it's a tie and I never put
anything in there about doing a tie.
It knew from all the other stuff that it
could put in a tie, it was incredible.
It's very hard to make this thing
always work consistently but
I do think that there's a lot of room for
this thing.
It's gonna be really cool, I'm very
excited about it at least, minimally